--- 
title: Intro Part 4, Name the Machine
date: 2023-01-14
description: If an objective virtue exists, it is much more than a nameless force flowing through nature.  There must be a metaphysical source, one that is perfectly in love, caught in the dance of submission.
---

If love exists outside of our minds, then there must be an object or origin of this love.  Where does the light come from?  We can see the sun in the sky but can hardly imagine its size or distance from the earth.  In the same way that a candle can light up a dark room, our natural minds have this picture of love.  There is a greater light that we cannot comprehend.  This source can define our morality, our existence, and be the object of our joy.  

Some might claim that the origin of morality is the “universe,” just a nameless truth that holds everything together in a random synchronicity.  If this is the case, have we really found a reason for our spinning planet, this cosmic dust?  No, the origin of love must have a utility of its own, and in turn it possesses all life with meaning.  We reach in faith for the supernatural mystery beyond ourselves.  It is for the hope that a greater, objective beauty and love is real.  

The purpose of this love maker is to bow itself to that which is most beautiful.  If its identity is already defined by ultimate virtue, then how can being bow to anything less than perfection.  The wielder of metaphysical goodness has only one place to look for meaning, into itself.  What else could satisfy the bringer of satisfaction?  But there is a problem, a contradiction of identity.  How does a single object surrender in love to itself?  To accept this mystery is to believe that it is a paradox rather than a contradiction, the explanation is unknown to us.  The pattern of surrender calls us out of our certainty once again.  This origin of love must be a perfect union of community and individual. 

Here is an analogy.  The sun itself is a ball of constant fire, the fusion of elements, a cyclical flow of overwhelming mass.  These churning elements contribute to the movements of this one great machine.  Similarly, this metaphysical power of love has a flow.  There is a relationship between this power, and it is built on this greatest love: to give everything for the satisfaction of seeing the other be lifted up.  Each side seeks the “glory” of the other.  It is worship to lift up the other, to believe that it is worthy above all.  These movements and positions of love necessarily exist within this singularity.  It is a dance of submission.

This God machine is the eternal, captivating object of pleasure.  It/He is worthy, His power is unbreakable, He is love.  This God is “holy,” altogether different and set apart from all other life.  His identity defines the meaning of beauty for this world.  There is no greater call on our lives, that we believe in His relationship pattern and follow Him to the greater joy of eternity.

The only question left is what purpose would this God have in this world?  It/He has no need for anything beyond Himself.  He pursues His very own wonder.  But what if the power and resolve within Himself could be tested and measured?  What if His relationship could be challenged by an opposing force, we can call it “evil.”  This evil would have no greater satisfaction than to destroy the author of love.  It was for His own glory that the God machine endured this threat.  At great lengths, He sought to survive this dismemberment between His community of self.  This God of love allowed hate to break His union so that His infinite love would be proven greater.  And in so doing, the greatest of all evil was undone, powerless.  

There is no question of God’s holiness.  The challenger is disposed of, all that is left is complete trust in the power of the God who remains faithful to His definition.  He has defeated evil and all things are made new.  Death and hate have no claim on this world any longer.  It was for the joy set before Him that all glory be placed at His feet, and that perfect satisfaction be given to all those who love Him.

